Hey welcome back.
In this video we're going to look at a command called CD which stands for change directory.
This is how we can move both forward and backwards through our file and folder structure using the command
line.
So if we have this same folder structure where we have our root directory and then a user's directory
and then Colt directory which is the home directory inside of that there's another folder or directory
called Stuff.
If I was currently located in this directory which we actually don't know how to do yet because when
we open a Power Shell we're stuck in the home directory.
But suppose we were here if I wanted to just double check where I was I could type PWT.
It tells me user slash called such stuff.
And when I'm saying slash I do mean backslash on a Mac or a Linux system.
It actually is a forward slash which is one of the main differences.
So if you do see me typing paths I'll be using forward slashes in most of the course.
Just know that that should be a backslash for you if you're on a PC.
Anyway I type PWT I get proof that I am indeed in the stuff directory and if I typed CD and then backslash
users that would take me all the way back change directory into this directory that moves me here and
to verify I could type PWB again.
And I see the path is changed now and users are no longer in stuff.
And that's one way of using CD.
It's called navigating.
Absolutely where I typed the entire path.
I couldn't just say CD users from here.
I have to say backslash users because that's the absolute path backslash for the root directory then
users.
Same thing with calls.
I couldn't just go from stuff and say CD colt.
I would have to say CD backslash users backslash colt or what I'm going to show you in the next slide
is an alternative way to navigate relatively using your current position.
So imagine I had the same scenario and users directory called directory stuff directory.
If I'm currently in the stuff directory and I want to go back to the cult directory I don't have to
type CD backslash users slash backslash code I can type a CD dot dot dot dot is a special little command
that just means go back one level one folder every time I type C.D dot dot.
It backs me out one level until I can go no further.
And if I typed PWT again I would now see that users access code.
I'm in the home directory and before I demo this in the power show just recapping to see what's inside
to see the contents of a directory we can use advice.
And it just lists all the contents as well as the last time that they were altered time and date.
Ok now I'm in my power show and we're in our default home directory.
If I type LS to see what folders I have in front of me I see there's a desktop directory.
So why don't I change directory into desktop and if I type D or desk and then hit tab and see what happens
for me it actually auto completes it.
Try that again.
C D D in its case insensitive.
So I can do d lowercase i hit tab.
It auto completes to match that folder.
The dot by the way stands for the current directory.
So dot dot means go back one level dot means the current folder and then whatever's in front of it.
So slash backslash desktop should take me to a desktop and if I type PWT you can see I am indeed indeed
on the desktop inside of the cold home directory instead of users inside of the root.
And if I type LS there are two folders in here.
Let's go into the stuff directory if I wanted to I could actually take a peek at what's in there from
outside if I type LS stuff.
And it tells me all right.
It's just a bunch of stuff I moved into there to hide from you and my desk top nothing scandalous just
a bunch of like screencast recording files some random clutter on my desktop at any point.
By the way you can type clear to clear your power show.
I'll do that a lot in the course.
Just as things start to move down and get cluttered.
So LS again let's change into Colts code and all I had to do is type C and it hit tab type LS again.
Now I can see there's a single file in there.
So once we learn how to actually run code I mean it's not that hard.
It's just the word python.
And then my code P Y which is the file you probably don't have Python installed yet.
But if you did this would work and this is our bread and butter of course.
We'll edit a bunch of files type of munchy code then navigate to them so find them using CD analysis
and then execute them.
And that's what I get here as we are we've already seen.
So now let's work on going backwards.
I'm currently in Colts code on the desktop.
Let's say I want to just go back to the desktop.
It's just a matter of CD Dadds And now if I type.
I mean you can see the prompt change to show me that if I type PWT I am indeed on the desktop by type
LS.
I have two folders that are on my desktop.
That's it.
I want to go back one level again.
See the DOT DOT I'm now in my home directory.
Slash backslash users backslash Colts type LS Let's go back one level again.
Where will this take me to the users directory.
And one more time.
I am now in the root.
So you probably won't spend much time in your root directory.
But this is what it looks like.
You type PWT.
It just shows S backslash.
That's where we are as a shortcut.
If I wanted to get back to my home directory I could just close the window down and open a new one and
it would automatically be there.
I don't have to do backslash and then users backslash.
My name called.
I can also do cd Tildy that little shortcut we saw and that takes me straight there.
So referencing Tildy always references the home directory and the type of us I'm there.
If I wanted to go back to the root.
Like I said you probably wouldn't want to do this often.
You can do cd backslash and that takes me right there.
I type PWT that's where I am.
So let's go back to the desktop.
Now I have a lot of ways of getting there.
I could see one it and one step at a time.
CD users hit enter CD desktop or CD colt then CD desktop.
I could also do CD and do the entire absolute path slash backslash users backslash Colts backslash desktop
and finally I could also do cd till the slash desktop and it auto completed to this so I'll show you
amortise CD till the slash desktop hit tab and it auto fills it in.
And now I'm on the desktop.
OK so I know it's been a whirlwind.
If you are new to this in my experience it takes students a little while.
At least my in-person students takes them a while to get comfortable using the command line especially
if they've never used it before.
So just take some time and explore your own file structure on your own.
You probably have a lot more files on your computer than I do.
I don't really use this pc very much mainly for recording this sort of this type of video.
To be honest so it will be more exciting for you to follow.
You know look your own files and folders and explore what happens then after this.
There's a quick quiz.
The whole goal is just to make sure that you're comfortable using these commands and then we have a
couple more commands just to and then we're done and we move on to Python.